README.md, before:

# Vélo City E-Commerce Website

## Introduction

![Image of Device responsiveness](static/images/responsive-final.png)

Vélo City is an e-commerce cycling website where users can purchase bikes and cycling kit. 

There are two types of users, for which the test account details are as follows:
* Admins:
Username:
Password:

* Shoppers:
Username:
Password:

Visit the live site here: 

# User Experience (UX)

## Strategy

### Project Goals

* To create an e-commerce cycling website which sells bikes and cycling kit. The site also features a cycling blog and events page which aims to attract cyclists to the site, and keep potential shoppers interested so that they might spend more time on the site.

### User Goals

* To shop for bikes and bike kit, to learn about cycling events and pick up cycling tips from our blog.

### Site Owner's Goals

* To allow users to purchase products on the site.
* To add, edit and update products on the site. 
* To add, edit and update blog posts which are published for site users.
* To add, edit and update event posts which are published for site users.
* To allow users to book a bike service via the site. 

### Site User's Goals

* To purchase bikes and cycling kit.
* To view the site blog posts for cycling tips.
* To get information about upcoming Irish cycling events via site event posts. 
* To login or logout of the site.
* To easily recover my password if I forget it
* To register as a user of the website and receive a confirmation email when doing so.
* To have a personalised profile which contains my order history, delivery and payment information.
* To sort the list of available products by category, price and rating.
* To complete a purchase of products in a shopping cart.
* To search for a product by category, name or description and view the search results.
* To view a list of products on the website.
* To view a product detail page for each product (image, price, description, category, rating and size).

### Target Audience

* Anyone who is interested in purchasing a bike or cycling kit, especially cycling enthusiasts who are likely to enjoy the cycling content, return to the site and develop brand loyalty.

## Structure

### Website Pages

The website contains the following pages: 

 * Home page

 * About page

 * Products page

 * Product detail page

 * Blog list and blog detail pages

 * Events page

 * Log in/out and register pages

 * Product Management Pages (Add, Edit and Delete)

 * Blog Managements Pages (Add, Edit and Delete)

 * Events Management Pages (Add, Edit and Delete)

 * My profile page

 * My order history page?

 * My Cart page

 * Checkout page

 * Checkout success page

For consistency of user experience, the site logo, navigation links and footer remain consitent throughout the site.

### Database

* The website uses HTML, Javascript and CSS used with the Bootstrap framework for the frontend.
* The backend was created using Python, built within the Django framework and uses the Postgres database for the deployed Heroku version.
* A SQLLite database was used for local development.

**Physical database model** 

![Database](static/images/pp4-datamodel-png.png)

* Post model

  * The Post model contians information about blog posts posted to the website. 
  * It contains author as a foreign-key for the users table.
  * The model contains the following fields: title, slug, author, updated_on, content, created_on, status, image_url, and image.

* Event model 

  * The Event model contains information about event listings posted to the website.
  * The model contains the following fields: title, event_category, event_date, updated_on, content, created_on, status, image_url and image.
  * The model contains multiple category types which can be chosen from a drop down menu when a post is being created.

* Booking Model
  
  * The Booking model contains information about bike service bookings made by site users.
  * The model contains the following fields: first_name, last_name, email_address, phone_number, date, and service_type. 
  * Service type field contains several choices which appear within a dropdown menu on the front-end of the site. They are: Bike fit, Repair and Full service.
  * There is a function within the model which prevents a date from the past being chosen when submitting the form.

* User Model

  * The User model contains information about the user. It is part of the Django allauth library.
  * The model contains the following fields: username, password, first_name, last_name, email, is_staff, is_active, is_superuser, last_login, date_joined.

* UserProfile Model

  * The UserProfile Model contains information about the user's profile. It has a one to one relationship with the user.
  * The model contains the following fields: user, default_phone_number, default_street_address1, default_street_address2, default_town_or_city, default_county, default_postcode, default_country.

* Product Model

 * The Product model contains information about all products on the site.
 * The model contains the the following fields: category, sku, name, description, has_sizes, price, rating, image_url and image.
 
* Category Model 

  * The Category model contains a product's category.
  * The model contains the following fields: name and friendly_name.

* Order Model 

  * The Order model contains information about a customer's order.
  * The model contains the following fields: order_number, user_profile, full_name, email, phone_number, country, postcode, town_or_city, street_Address1, street_Address2, county, date, delivery_cost, order_total, grand_total, original_cart and stripe_pid.

* OrderLineItem Model  

  * The OrderLineItem model contains information about an entry in an order, for orders made on the website.
  * The model contains Order and Product as foreign-keys.
  * The model contains the following fields: order, product, product_size, quantity and lineitem_total.

## Scope

* First Time Visitor Goals

  * As a First Time Visitor, 
  * As a First Time Visitor, 
  * As a First Time Visitor,
 
* Returning Visitor Goals

  * As a Returning Visitor,
  * As a Returning Visitor, 
  
* Frequent User Goals

  * As a Frequent User, I

* Site Owner Goals

 
More specific user stories are discussed in the context of website features in the Features section below.

Note: Throughout the project, this [Kanban board](https://github.com/rocrill/velo_city/projects/1) was used to organise and track the progress of the user story development, however the final user stories are documented fully within this Readme.

Commit message:

SEO and Business Model section of Readme first draft complete.

README.md, after:

# Vélo City E-Commerce Website

## Introduction

![Image of Device responsiveness](static/images/responsive-final.png)

Vélo City is an e-commerce cycling website where users can purchase bikes and cycling kit. 

There are two types of users, for which the test account details are as follows:
* Admins:
Username:
Password:

* Shoppers:
Username:
Password:

Visit the live site here: 

# User Experience (UX)

## Strategy

### Business Model

Business Model
The business model behind Vélo City is B2C or Business to Customer. The online store sells products from various cycling brands rather than their own branded products.

In terms of the flow of the business model, Vélo City buys all products from their affiliated brands and manufacturers, and these products are then sold via the Vélo City website to the customer.

Marketing
Vélo City has a Facebook Business page which can be viewed here. This can also be accessed from the footer of the website.

The website footer also contains a Mailchimp marketing comms subscription sign up form. When users sign up to the Mailchimp form, their details feed through the company's Audience Dashboard on Mailchimp account. These customers can now be included in Vélo City marketing campaigns. 

### Search Engine Optimisation

This project included a Sitemap.xml and Robots.txt file to ensure that Google can crawl only the relevant and unique pages of the Vélo City website.

I have also researched the top search terms for bike store products, for which I used Google search and Wordtracker.com, in addition to reviewing other cycling e-commerce sites.

The following keywords and key phrases were included in the project meta tags:


### Project Goals

* To create an e-commerce cycling website which sells bikes and cycling kit. The site also features a cycling blog and events page which aims to attract cyclists to the site, and keep potential shoppers interested so that they might spend more time on the site.

### User Goals

* To shop for bikes and bike kit, to learn about cycling events and pick up cycling tips from our blog.

### Site Owner's Goals

* To allow users to purchase products on the site.
* To add, edit and update products on the site. 
* To add, edit and update blog posts which are published for site users.
* To add, edit and update event posts which are published for site users.
* To allow users to book a bike service via the site. 

### Site User's Goals

* To purchase bikes and cycling kit.
* To view the site blog posts for cycling tips.
* To get information about upcoming Irish cycling events via site event posts. 
* To login or logout of the site.
* To easily recover my password if I forget it
* To register as a user of the website and receive a confirmation email when doing so.
* To have a personalised profile which contains my order history, delivery and payment information.
* To sort the list of available products by category, price and rating.
* To complete a purchase of products in a shopping cart.
* To search for a product by category, name or description and view the search results.
* To view a list of products on the website.
* To view a product detail page for each product (image, price, description, category, rating and size).

### Target Audience

* Anyone who is interested in purchasing a bike or cycling kit, especially cycling enthusiasts who are likely to enjoy the cycling content, return to the site and develop brand loyalty.

## Structure

### Website Pages

The website contains the following pages: 

 * Home page

 * About page

 * Products page

 * Product detail page

 * Blog list and blog detail pages

 * Events page

 * Log in/out and register pages

 * Product Management Pages (Add, Edit and Delete)

 * Blog Managements Pages (Add, Edit and Delete)

 * Events Management Pages (Add, Edit and Delete)

 * My profile page

 * My order history page?

 * My Cart page

 * Checkout page

 * Checkout success page

For consistency of user experience, the site logo, navigation links and footer remain consitent throughout the site.

### Database

* The website uses HTML, Javascript and CSS used with the Bootstrap framework for the frontend.
* The backend was created using Python, built within the Django framework and uses the Postgres database for the deployed Heroku version.
* A SQLLite database was used for local development.

**Physical database model** 

![Database](static/images/pp4-datamodel-png.png)

* Post model

  * The Post model contians information about blog posts posted to the website. 
  * It contains author as a foreign-key for the users table.
  * The model contains the following fields: title, slug, author, updated_on, content, created_on, status, image_url, and image.

* Event model 

  * The Event model contains information about event listings posted to the website.
  * The model contains the following fields: title, event_category, event_date, updated_on, content, created_on, status, image_url and image.
  * The model contains multiple category types which can be chosen from a drop down menu when a post is being created.

* Booking Model
  
  * The Booking model contains information about bike service bookings made by site users.
  * The model contains the following fields: first_name, last_name, email_address, phone_number, date, and service_type. 
  * Service type field contains several choices which appear within a dropdown menu on the front-end of the site. They are: Bike fit, Repair and Full service.
  * There is a function within the model which prevents a date from the past being chosen when submitting the form.

* User Model

  * The User model contains information about the user. It is part of the Django allauth library.
  * The model contains the following fields: username, password, first_name, last_name, email, is_staff, is_active, is_superuser, last_login, date_joined.

* UserProfile Model

  * The UserProfile Model contains information about the user's profile. It has a one to one relationship with the user.
  * The model contains the following fields: user, default_phone_number, default_street_address1, default_street_address2, default_town_or_city, default_county, default_postcode, default_country.

* Product Model

 * The Product model contains information about all products on the site.
 * The model contains the the following fields: category, sku, name, description, has_sizes, price, rating, image_url and image.
 
* Category Model 

  * The Category model contains a product's category.
  * The model contains the following fields: name and friendly_name.

* Order Model 

  * The Order model contains information about a customer's order.
  * The model contains the following fields: order_number, user_profile, full_name, email, phone_number, country, postcode, town_or_city, street_Address1, street_Address2, county, date, delivery_cost, order_total, grand_total, original_cart and stripe_pid.

* OrderLineItem Model  

  * The OrderLineItem model contains information about an entry in an order, for orders made on the website.
  * The model contains Order and Product as foreign-keys.
  * The model contains the following fields: order, product, product_size, quantity and lineitem_total.

## Scope

* First Time Visitor Goals

  * As a First Time Visitor, 
  * As a First Time Visitor, 
  * As a First Time Visitor,
 
* Returning Visitor Goals

  * As a Returning Visitor,
  * As a Returning Visitor, 
  
* Frequent User Goals

  * As a Frequent User, I

* Site Owner Goals

 
More specific user stories are discussed in the context of website features in the Features section below.

Note: Throughout the project, this [Kanban board](https://github.com/rocrill/velo_city/projects/1) was used to organise and track the progress of the user story development, however the final user stories are documented fully within this Readme.
